# Problem 2 - Even Fibonacci Number

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

```
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
```

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

http://projecteuler.net/problem=2

## The Solution

It's pretty darn easy once you define a fibonacci function:

```javascript

function fib(n){
  if (n < 3) return fibs[n] = 1;
  return fibs[n] = fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2);
}
```

Then you just maintain a total, make sure the fibonacci number you're about to add is even (```fib(n) % 2```).

```javascript
module.exports = function(max){
  var total = 0, n = 0;

  max = max || 4000000;

	// Check this line out
  while ((total += (++n % 3 === 0) ? fib(n) : 0) < max);

  return total;
};
```

The real interesting part is that while condition. I think most people would check the value of the current fibonacci number to ensure they're not exceeding 4 million. At that point, they would stop. I check the total because the total represents the nth fibonacci number since ```fib(n) = fib(n - 1) + fib(n - 2)```. That's the cool thing about this problem that I think the site creators want you to realize.

The sum of all fibonacci numbers up to fib(n) is EQUAL TO just plain ol' fib(n). Furthermore, let's examine this sequence:

```
1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144...
```

The sequence goes: odd, odd, even, odd odd, even, odd odd, even... and so on. There's a certain regularity to it. What I find REALLY interesting is that in summing all of the even numbers, we're really just summing the two previous fibonacci numbers which are both ODD!

That means that if we were to sum the odd numbers, we should get the same result. And indeed. If you change the ```++n % 3 === 0``` to ```++n % 3 !== 0``` you get the same result!

I absolutely love the fibonacci sequence because there are so many patterns to find in it.
